README.md, before:

# cloud-native-todo-list
This application is a very simple todo list app. However this is more that a simple 
Todo List app..... It is a Cloud Native Todo List!!!. In this application I show you 
how Istio can help you to make a microservice application cloud native with services 
written in any language that you want maintaining tracing, logging and so on. 

At the moment tracing is guaranteed by Istio itself, let get started!

## installation
First of all you need fo three things: kubernetes, istio and an envoy proxy for publish on your localhost the cluster.

* docker installation 
* kubernetes installation: pheraps the best thing is use a minikube installation [following this link](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/learning-environment/minikube/) you can get all information about!
    * assuming that minikube was your choice now you have to start a new minikube instance you can do that with this command: ```minikube start --memory xxxx --cpus xxx --driver virtualbox --disk-size=xxxg  --profile istio ```
    * if your minikube installation does not have ingress enabled type this command:  ```minikube addons enable ingress --profile istio ```
* install istio 
    * on linux: ```curl -L https://istio.io/downloadIstio | sh -``` otherwise checkout the [official page](https://istio.io/docs/setup/getting-started/#download) and follow the instructions
    * un package the tar
    * Put ```export PATH=$PWD/bin:$PATH``` in your permanent environment
    * type teh command ```istioctl manifest apply --set profile=demo```

## build local image eligible to minikube
Pushing directly to the in-cluster Docker daemon (docker-env) [for more information](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/handbook/pushing/#5-building-images-inside-of-minikube-using-ssh) 
```eval $(minikube --profile istio docker-env) ```

in the same shell of the previous command 
mvn clean install of todo-list-website copy the Dockerfile under todo-list-website/src/main/docker 
in todo-list-website/target and fire the command ```docker build --tag mrflick72/todo-list-website:latest .```

move in todo-service folder and fire the follow command ```docker build --tag mrflick72/todo-service:latest .```

## inject envoy proxy for istio
in order to deploy all k8s yaml instrumented by istio execute the follow commands
PAY ATTENTION!!! in todo-list-website.yml there is a ${MINIKUBE_IP} placeholder this have to replaced with ```minikube ip --profile istio``` value
```bash
istioctl kube-inject -f infrastructure.yml | kubectl apply -f -
istioctl kube-inject -f keycloak.yml | kubectl apply -f -
istioctl kube-inject -f todo-list-website.yml | kubectl apply -f -
istioctl kube-inject -f todo-service.yml | kubectl apply -f -
```

## application configuration post installation

after that all pods are up and running the last step to configure is the redirect uri of auth2 client application configured for the use case. 
Follow the link http://${MINIKUBE_IP}/auth/admin/master/console/#/realms/todo-list/clients/37ba1f70-153a-442d-994b-b3509046741d 
and make the ```* Valid Redirect URIs ``` value with the same ip of your cluster for instance if your MINIKUBE_IP is 
192.168.99.101 the complete link will be: ```http://192.168.99.101/website/login/oauth2/code/keycloak```

in order to access to keycloak admin pages, admin user credentials are the most classical admin admin credentials.

After all you can use the cloud native todo list app wia http://${MINIKUBE_IP}/website link. In this case the default user credentials 
are...... user secret.

## Istio goodies
Now that the app is up and running in order to explore the power of istio even with only envoy proxy in place you can type the command:
```istioctl dasboard grafana```
```istioctl dasboard kiali```
```istioctl dasboard jaeger```
and automatically you can start to explore:
* On grafana how so many metrics out of the box you can leverage by the platform
* On jaeger how even without the powerful spring cloud sleuth used on the website, you can leverage of distributed tracing spanned from teh website to the service written in GO 
* On kiali the topological insight that istio can infer from the platform in order to manage your service mesh.

## Conclusion
Istio is a super powerful platform that can help you to manage your service mesh, in kubernetes or bare metal in a consistent way. 
Thats all?......... no it is only the surface stay tuned soon other improvement and example of how leverage of Istio feature will come!

Commit message:

Logging (#1)
* add sleuth to web site
add logging library to service

* add sleuth to web site
add logging library to service

* log volume issue fix

README.md, after:

# cloud-native-todo-list
This application is a very simple todo list app. However this is more that a simple 
Todo List app..... It is a Cloud Native Todo List!!!. In this application I show you 
how Istio can help you to make a microservice application cloud native with services 
written in any language that you want maintaining tracing, logging and so on. 

At the moment tracing is guaranteed by Istio itself, let get started!

## installation
First of all you need fo three things: kubernetes, istio and an envoy proxy for publish on your localhost the cluster.

* docker installation 
* kubernetes installation: pheraps the best thing is use a minikube installation [following this link](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/learning-environment/minikube/) you can get all information about!
    * assuming that minikube was your choice now you have to start a new minikube instance you can do that with this command: ```minikube start --memory xxxx --cpus xxx --driver virtualbox --disk-size=xxxg  --profile istio ```
    * if your minikube installation does not have ingress enabled type this command:  ```minikube addons enable ingress --profile istio ```
* install istio 
    * on linux: ```curl -L https://istio.io/downloadIstio | sh -``` otherwise checkout the [official page](https://istio.io/docs/setup/getting-started/#download) and follow the instructions
    * un package the tar
    * Put ```export PATH=$PWD/bin:$PATH``` in your permanent environment
    * type teh command ```istioctl manifest apply --set profile=demo```

## build local image eligible to minikube
Pushing directly to the in-cluster Docker daemon (docker-env) [for more information](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/handbook/pushing/#5-building-images-inside-of-minikube-using-ssh) 
```eval $(minikube --profile istio docker-env) ```

in the same shell of the previous command 
mvn clean install of todo-list-website copy the Dockerfile under todo-list-website/src/main/docker 
in todo-list-website/target and fire the command ```docker build --tag mrflick72/todo-list-website:latest .```

move in todo-service folder and fire the follow command ```docker build --tag mrflick72/todo-service:latest .```

## persistance storage directory
In order to benefit of persistance volume you have to connect via ssh to your kubernetes nodes, if you are using minikube 
you can type this command ```minikube ssh -p istio```. After this command you are connected to minikube, now you can create your 
directory, type command ```sudo mkdir -p /mnt/data/mysql``` in order to have hte mysql directory, then type command 
```sudo mkdir -m 777 -p /mnt/data/log/elastic``` 
 
## inject envoy proxy for istio
in order to deploy all k8s yaml instrumented by istio execute the follow commands
PAY ATTENTION!!! in todo-list-website.yml there is a ${MINIKUBE_IP} placeholder this have to replaced with ```minikube ip --profile istio``` value
```bash
istioctl kube-inject -f infrastructure.yml | kubectl apply -f -
istioctl kube-inject -f monitoring.yml | kubectl apply -f -
istioctl kube-inject -f keycloak.yml | kubectl apply -f -
istioctl kube-inject -f todo-list-website.yml | kubectl apply -f -
istioctl kube-inject -f todo-service.yml | kubectl apply -f -
```

## application configuration post installation

after that all pods are up and running the last step to configure is the redirect uri of auth2 client application configured for the use case. 
Follow the link http://${MINIKUBE_IP}/auth/admin/master/console/#/realms/todo-list/clients/37ba1f70-153a-442d-994b-b3509046741d 
and make the ```* Valid Redirect URIs ``` value with the same ip of your cluster for instance if your MINIKUBE_IP is 
192.168.99.101 the complete link will be: ```http://192.168.99.101/website/login/oauth2/code/keycloak```

in order to access to keycloak admin pages, admin user credentials are the most classical admin admin credentials.

After all you can use the cloud native todo list app wia http://${MINIKUBE_IP}/website link. In this case the default user credentials 
are...... user secret.

## Istio goodies
Now that the app is up and running in order to explore the power of istio even with only envoy proxy in place you can type the command:
```istioctl dashboard grafana```
```istioctl dashboard kiali```
```istioctl dashboard jaeger```
and automatically you can start to explore:
* On grafana how so many metrics out of the box you can leverage by the platform
* On jaeger how even without the powerful spring cloud sleuth used on the website, you can leverage of distributed tracing spanned from teh website to the service written in GO 
* On kiali the topological insight that istio can infer from the platform in order to manage your service mesh.

## Conclusion
Istio is a super powerful platform that can help you to manage your service mesh, in kubernetes or bare metal in a consistent way. 
Thats all?......... no it is only the surface stay tuned soon other improvement and example of how leverage of Istio feature will come!
